In the book, inside on the Scriptures, under the heading Christian, it makes clear that
claiming to be Christian requires more than simply a mere confession of faith.
It is more than being a nominal Christian, a Christian in name only.
For example, according to the Bible, it is necessary that belief be demonstrated by
works, not just words.
And since we were born as sinners, those who become Christians need to repent, to turn
around, to dedicate their lives to Jehovah, to worship and serve Him, and then to submit
to water baptism.
They must keep themselves clean from fornication, from idolatry, and from consuming blood.
They are to strip off the old personality, including such things as fits of anger, obscene
talk, lying, stealing, drunkenness.
And as Galatians chapter 5 says, things like these, yes they are to bring their lives into
a court with Bible principles.
Christians are to be kind and considerate, mild tempered and patient, and are to exercise
self-control.
They provide and care for their own and love their neighbor as themselves.
What's a loss, isn't it?
It's not a matter of just glibly saying, I am a Christian.
But despite all of those impressive characteristics that we just enumerated, what did Jesus say
the main identifying quality of a true Christian would be?
Most of you know the answer to that.
But let's read it again from John 13, 34, and 35.
It says, I am giving you a new commandment that you love one another, just as I have loved
you.
You also love one another.
By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love among yourselves.
Those are the theme verses for my discussion with you this month.
The topic is love, the identifying mark of a disciple of Jesus.
Did you notice in verse 34 that Jesus said that he was giving them at that time a new commandment?
But it sounds like a very old commandment doesn't it?
Why over 1,500 years before Jesus said that the words we just read, the law given to Moses
said, you must love your fellow man as yourself, Leviticus 19, 18.
So what was new about Jesus' command in John chapter 13?
He said that true Christians were to love each other just as I have loved you.
That is what was different.
That was new.
Not just love the other person as you love yourself, but love him just like Jesus loved
his followers.
Well what kind of love would that be?
Self-sacrificing love.
And usually we think of Jesus' ultimate sacrifice, his willingly giving his life so that we
might have the hope of everlasting life.
But when you think about it, that aspect of Jesus' love was simplified and a self-sacrificing
death.
Now it's true that as a Christian we might, at some time, have to give our life for
a fellow Christian, but we hope it doesn't come to that.
So instead of talking about a self-sacrificing death, we want to discuss showing this new kind
of love as evidenced in a self-sacrificing life.
None necessarily are dead.
You see, Jesus' life, his three and a half year ministry, was a self-sacrificing life
of loving others.
In addition to doing good when something requires it, a true follower of Jesus is to take the
initiative to help others spiritually and otherwise.
He has to work actively for their good.
They preaching and teaching are the good news to others.
Some of whom may even be hostile is one of the greatest expressions of love, for it can
result in everlasting life to the recipients.
However, according to Paul's words at First Thessalonians 2, verse 8, a true Christian
must impart not only the good news of God, but also his very self in helping those who
accept the good news.
It's that kind of love that Jesus said would be an identifying mark of his disciples,
not specifically that his followers would all be dying for each other, but more so that
they would all be living for each other.
Yes, displaying self-sacrificing love for one another every day of their lives.
The four gospels are a treasure trove of Jesus' self-sacrificing love, and yet they do
not cover his actions every day of his life as the Christ.
History in a half-year ministry amounts to nearly 1,300 days of life and love.
The written record of Jesus' life is admittedly brief, but it is grand indeed.
However, the reality of observing Jesus every day must have been far grander than what
we have in print.
What we have in print might be likened to a photo album of Jesus' life, some snap shots.
By comparison, what his apostles' experience with Jesus' day after day was like a continuous
video of his example of love.
No wonder that at John, chapter 21, verse 25, the apostle said,
there are also many other things that Jesus did, which if ever they were written in full
detail, I suppose the world itself could not contain the scrolls written.
It said there were many other things.
Jesus did, not many other things that he said, but that he did.
Yes, deeds or acts, demonstrating his self-sacrificing life of love.
We already mentioned the all-important preaching work as being an act of love on our part,
but how else do we manifest the most obvious trait of a genuine Christian?
Love like Jesus had.
Let's start by thinking of the elders and the congregation.
At the Philippians, chapter 2, verse 17, Paul said that he had poured himself out to
the congregation like a drink offering.
What did that mean?
It meant that he drained himself out, both physically and emotionally, to support the
Philippians.
Many of the elders in our congregations have the same self-sacrificing love for those
under their care.
They give of their time to shepherd and readjust those in need.
They take the lead in the ministry.
They respond when there is a serious health issue or tragedy.
They pour themselves out for the friends, thus identifying themselves as disciples of
Christ.
But we do not have to be an elder to provide a word of encouragement to do it.
If we all keep focused on others in the congregation, not just ourselves, we will know who needs
to be bolstered because of trials or circumstances that they face.
Giving in this way is evidence of Christ's like love.
You may be thinking, but I am just a little old sister who finds it hard to squeeze out
a word of encouragement to others.
Perhaps you do not have to say anything.
Just be there at the meetings or in the service.
When others see your face, they are encouraged.
Follow along as I read Acts chapter 28 and verse 15.
It reads, from there, the brothers when they heard the news about us came as far as the
marketplace of apias and three taverns to meet us.
When catching sight of them, Paul thanked God and took courage.
Paul took courage just by seeing the brothers who came out to meeting.
You encourage your brothers and sisters by your presence.
Please follow along as I read Philippians chapter 2, 1 through 4.
Paul here describes it as encouragement in Christ.
He says, if then there is any encouragement in Christ.
If any consolation of love, if any spiritual fellowship, if any tender affection and compassion
make my joy full by being of the same mind and having the same love, being completely
united, having the one thought in mind, do nothing out of contentiousness or out of
egotism but with humility.
Consider others superior to you as you look out not only for your own interests but also
for the interests of others.
Did you notice the self-sacrificing aspect of this love and encouragement?
Yes, he talked about having love.
But then he said, not for your own interests but for the interests of others.
That type of love in the interests of others is the identifying mark of true Christians.
What about visiting the sick in your congregation or those who are housebound?
Sometimes these dear ones are out of sight, out of mind.
We visit with those we see when at the kingdom hall but do we think about those who are shut
in?
What was a major part of Jesus' loving acts went on earth?
Our numerous accounts of Jesus and His apostles healing the sick.
It's true that we cannot heal the sick but it is in our power to visit the sick.
And what a healing that is to their spirit.
It means so much when they are not just prayed for at a meeting but when those words of prayer
are backed up with an act of love, a visit to them in person, that is Christ-like love
in action.
Why not scroll down the list of those in your service group with the thought and mind
of checking on those who have been missing from the meetings?
Do they need a meal?
Do they need some help?
Perhaps around the house?
Do they need transportation to the doctor?
Can we allow our love to expand to fill their needs?
Contributing to the worldwide work which cares for the needs of our brothers around the
world is another act of love.
It demonstrates that we are a true disciple of Christ.
Many of you have at your own expense traveled to far-flung places to help rebuild after
a natural disaster has struck.
The overwhelming response from the victims is evidence of your self-sacrificing life and
love for your brothers.
It's hoped that the reminder of Jesus at John 1334 and 35 will be good for all of us,
not just for this month, but for our whole course of life.
You know, about one-third of the world's population claims to be Christian.
But how many of them show self-sacrificing love outside of their immediate family?
Most are like a baseball team in a uniform.
They think having the word Christian emblazoned across the front of their uniform is all that
is required.
However, most of them simply sit on the bench or on a pew in church.
And many do not even attend the game.
They do not live the life of a Christian.
Jesus made clear that being a true disciple of his is not merely wearing a uniform.
Simply claiming to be his follower.
No, it involves actively demonstrating works of love, swinging hard for the team, imitating
the all-time greatest examples of love, Jehovah God and His Son, Jesus Christ.
As Paul said at 2 Corinthians chapter 8, first aid, we need to test the genuineness
of our love.
Yes, we need to daily prove that we are a genuine disciple of Jesus.